[DOCS] Adds Moving trained models between clusters to docs (#1439)
elastic/stack-docs: docs/en/stack/ml/df-analytics/ml-trained-models.asciidoc

--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:setup kibana sample data]

The API response returns a `trained_model_configs` array that contains a 
`compressed_definition` object and the analytics and inference configuration 
information.
--

3. Copy the content of `trained_model_configs`.

4. Use the {ref}/put-trained-models.html[Create trained model API] in the 
cluster you want to move the trained model to. Paste the content of the 
`trained_model_configs` to the request body of the API call. The API response 
contains the model information with metadata.

Your trained model is ready to be used as a <<ml-inference-processor,processor>> 
in an ingest pipeline or as an <<ml-inference-aggregation,aggregation>>.

[NOTE]
--
The trained model definition can be so large that it may take a long time for a 
computer clipboard to copy and paste it. It is recommended to do it 
programmatically, for example via a bash script or via Client code. You can find 
examples below.
--

The following Python snippet exports the trained model that you reference to a 
JSON file:

[source, py]

> --------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: Hi @szabosteve ! Can we add these two lines to the snippet
```
import json

from elasticsearch import Elasticsearch
from elasticsearch.client.ml import MlClient
```

es_client = Elasticsearch('URL to your ES instance', http_auth=(username, password), use_ssl=True)
ml_client = MlClient(es_client)
result = ml_client.get_trained_models(model_id='your-model-id', decompress_definition=False, include=definition)
compressed_df = result['trained_model_configs'][0]
with open('model_filename.json', 'w') as handle:
    handle.write(json.dumps(compressed_df))
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

The following Python snippet imports the model that stored in the JSON file to 
a cluster:

[source, py]

> --------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: Can we add these two lines to the top
```
import json

from elasticsearch import Elasticsearch
from elasticsearch.client.ml import MlClient
```

[discrete]
[[move-between-clusters]]
== Moving a trained model between clusters

It is a common scenario that the {ml} models are trained in a development or 
test environment and then used in a production environment. In this case, you 
need to move your trained model from one cluster to another. The trained model 
APIs enable you to move your trained model between clusters. The following 
description shows you the process step by step.

1. (Optional) In the cluster where you trained the model, make the call below by 
using the console in **Dev Tools** to get the configuration information of your 
trained models.
+
--

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _ml/trained_models/
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:setup kibana sample data]

The API response contains the `model_id` of the trained models. Check the 
`model_id` of the trained model you want to move, you need to add it to the API 
call in the next step.
--

2. Use the {ref}/get-trained-models.html[GET trained model API] to get the 
trained model definition. You need to specify the following query parameters in 
the call:
+
--

> * `for_export`: This parameter allows the model to be in an acceptable format to 

Reviewer: @davidkyle wasn't this param only added in 7.10?

using the {ref}/put-trained-models.html[create trained models API].

In {kib}, you can view and manage your trained models within *{ml-app}* > *Data 
Frame Analytics*:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/trained-model-management.png["List of trained models in the {ml-app} app in {kib}"]

Alternatively, you can use APIs like 
{ref}/get-trained-models.html[get trained models] and
{ref}/delete-trained-models.html[delete trained models].

[discrete]
[[move-between-clusters]]
== Moving a trained model between clusters

It is a common scenario that the {ml} models are trained in a cluster that is 
used for development and test purposes, and they are used in another cluster 
which is the production environment. In this case, you need to move your trained 
model from one cluster to another. The trained model APIs enable you to move 
your trained model between clusters. The following description shows you the 
process step by step.

1. (Optional) In the cluster where you trained the model, make the call below by 
using the console in **Dev Tools** to get the configuration information of your 
trained models.
+
--

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------

> GET _ml/inference/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GET _ml/inference/
```
I think this is deprecated and we should use the trained models API instead: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/get-trained-models.html

format. It is also valid to use the JSON format, but it is not optimal. As the 
decompressed definition may be significantly larger, it is recommended to use 
the compressed format.
   
The following call is an example to get the trained model definition. (Replace 
`<model_id>` with the actual ID of the trained model.)

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _ml/inference/<model_id>?for_export=true&include_model_definition=true&decompress_definition=false
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:setup kibana sample data]

The API response returns a `trained_model_configs` array that contains a 
`compressed_definition` object and the analytics and inference configuration 
information.
--

3. Copy the content of `trained_model_configs`.

4. Use the {ref}/put-inference.html[Create trained model API] in the cluster you 
want to move the trained model to. Paste the content of the 
`trained_model_configs` to the request body of the API call.
+
--
The following call is an example to create the trained model. The actual 
`compressed_definition` value is replaced by a place holder.

> .Create trained model API example

Reviewer 2: Looking at this example, it made me wonder which of these options were required to be the same as in the original cluster (other than compressed_definition).  Do they all have to be identical?  If not, I'm not sure if there's a lot of value to having this example and wonder if it should be removed, since the only option of importance is not shown fully anyway.

Author: @lcawl AFAIK, you can change the metadata in the PUT body, but it does not affect your model. However, the model configuration data will be inaccurate in this case as the model hasn't been trained with that configuration. The compressed_definition is a really long (in this example it's almost 50.000 character-long) series of characters and it is not human-readable. This is why I would omit it. I'll ask Ben about his opinion when I open the PR for review.

Reviewer 3: I agree with not fully expanding the `compressed_definition`, but it might be useful to elide the rest of the config for brevity.

Author: I removed the API example in 106e319.

        "Carrier",
        "Dest",
        "DestCityName",
        "DestCountry",
        "DestWeather",
        "DistanceKilometers",
        "DistanceMiles",
        "FlightDelay",
        "FlightDelayMin",
        "FlightTimeHour",
        "FlightTimeMin",
        "Origin",
        "OriginCityName",
        "OriginCountry",
        "OriginWeather",
        "dayOfWeek"
      ]
   },
   "inference_config":{
      "regression":{
         "results_field":"FlightDelayMin_prediction",
         "num_top_feature_importance_values":0
      }
   }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:setup kibana sample data]
====

The API response contains the model information with metadata.
--

Your trained model is ready to be used as a <<ml-inference-processor,processor>> 
in an ingest pipeline or as an <<ml-inference-aggregation,aggregation>>.

[NOTE]
--
The trained model definition can be so large that it may take a long time for a 
computer clipboard to copy and paste it. It is recommended to do it 
programmatically, for example via a bash script or via Client code. You can find 
examples below.
--

// Bash and Python examples

[discrete]
[[move-trained-model-to-es]]

> === Moving a model to {es}

Reviewer 2: Is there reason this is specifically mentioning Elasticsearch? It seems like the section is about moving it into Elastic or the Stack in general:
```suggestion
=== Moving a model to the {stack}
```

It is possible to add a model to your {es} cluster even if the model is not 

> trained by {dfanalytics}.

Reviewer 2: If I'm understanding correctly and this is about moving a model generated outside Elastic into Elastic, I think it might be clearer by adding this qualification:
```suggestion
trained by Elastic {dfanalytics}.
```

<<ml-inference>>.

You can also supply trained models that are not created by {dfanalytics-job} but
adhere to the appropriate 
https://github.com/elastic/ml-json-schemas[JSON schema]. If you want to use 
these trained models in the {stack}, you must store them in {es} documents by 
using the {ref}/put-trained-models.html[create trained models API].

In {kib}, you can view and manage your trained models within *{ml-app}* > *Data 
Frame Analytics*:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/trained-model-management.png["List of trained models in the {ml-app} app in {kib}"]

Alternatively, you can use APIs like 
{ref}/get-trained-models.html[get trained models] and
{ref}/delete-trained-models.html[delete trained models].

[discrete]
[[move-between-clusters]]
== Moving a trained model between clusters

> It is a common scenario that the {ml} models are trained in a cluster that is 
> used for development and test purposes, and they are used in another cluster 
> which is the production environment. In this case, you need to move your trained 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is a common scenario that the {ml} models are trained in a development
or test environment and then used in a production environment. 
In this case, you need to move your trained 
```

model from one cluster to another. The trained model APIs enable you to move 
your trained model between clusters. The following description shows you the 
process step by step.

1. (Optional) In the cluster where you trained the model, make the call below by 
using the console in **Dev Tools** to get the configuration information of your 
trained models.
+
--

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _ml/trained_models/
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:setup kibana sample data]

The API response contains the `model_id` of the trained models. Check the 
`model_id` of the trained model you want to move, you need to add it to the API 
call in the next step.
--

2. Use the {ref}/get-trained-models.html[GET trained model API] to get the 
trained model definition. You need to specify the following query parameters in 
the call:
+
--
* `for_export`: This parameter allows the model to be in an acceptable format to 
be retrieved and then added to another cluster. Set it to `true`.

> * `include_model_definition`: It specifies whether the model definition is 
> returned in the response. Set it to `true`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `include`: Set this to `definition` for the API to include the definition in the response.
```
`include_model_definition` is deprecated.

* `decompress_definition`: It specifies in what format the included model 
definition should be returned. Set it to `false` for getting a custom compressed 
format. It is also valid to use the JSON format, but it is not optimal. As the 
decompressed definition may be significantly larger, it is recommended to use 
the compressed format.
   
The following call is an example to get the trained model definition. (Replace 
`<model_id>` with the actual ID of the trained model.)

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------

> GET _ml/trained_models/<model_id>?for_export=true&include_model_definition=true&decompress_definition=false

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GET _ml/trained_models/<model_id>?for_export=true&include=definition&decompress_definition=false
```
